Update EIP-8282: Cleanup and Tweaks (#11869)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-8282.md

| `TARGET_EXIT_REQUESTS_PER_BLOCK` | `2` | Per-block request count above which the fee rises for the exit contract |
| `MIN_REQUEST_FEE` | `1` | Minimum request fee, in wei |
| `REQUEST_FEE_UPDATE_FRACTION` | `17` | Controls the fee's rate of change |
| `BUILDER_MIN_DEPOSIT` | `1000000000000000000` | Minimum credited stake for a deposit, in wei (1 ETH — the [EIP-7732](./eip-7732.md) builder minimum) |
| `BUILDER_DEPOSIT_CONTRACT_RUNTIME_CODE` | *see [Reference Implementation](#reference-implementation)* | Runtime bytecode of the builder deposit contract |
| `BUILDER_EXIT_CONTRACT_RUNTIME_CODE` | *see [Reference Implementation](#reference-implementation)* | Runtime bytecode of the builder exit contract |

> Final request-type values MUST be unique across all active [EIP-7685](./eip-7685.md) request types. Allocation is coordinated in consensus-specs.

Reviewer: Might be nice to link to a specific file, should one exist, where the coordination takes place.

### Deployment

> Both contracts are deployed by a `CREATE2` factory, rather than by the presigned single-use-deployer transaction (Nick's method) used for the [EIP-7002](./eip-7002.md) and [EIP-7251](./eip-7251.md) predeploys. Each address is determined by the factory, a salt, and the contract's init code. The salt is mined so that the addresses above result from the current reference bytecode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both contracts are deployed by a `CREATE2` factory, rather than by the presigned single-use-deployer transaction (Nick's method) used for the [EIP-7002](./eip-7002.md) and [EIP-7251](./eip-7251.md) predeploys. Each address is determined by the factory, a salt, and the contract's init code. The salt was mined such that the addresses above will be the result from the current reference bytecode.
```

> Both contracts are deployed by a `CREATE2` factory, rather than by the presigned single-use-deployer transaction (Nick's method) used for the [EIP-7002](./eip-7002.md) and [EIP-7251](./eip-7251.md) predeploys. Each address is determined by the factory, a salt, and the contract's init code. The salt is mined so that the addresses above result from the current reference bytecode.

Reviewer: I don't remember if I mentioned this on this proposal or if it was a different one, but it would be nice to have somewhere to link to "Nick's method", whether that's an older Core EIP that defines it, or a bespoke informational EIP that we create now.

Author: I just deleted the reference as I don't think its entirely important for this EIP

The contracts MUST be deployed before the fork that activates this EIP. If there is no code at either address once the EIP is active, every block from activation onward MUST be invalid.

### Request queue and system call

> Both predeploys follow the [EIP-7002](./eip-7002.md) and [EIP-7251](./eip-7251.md) contract design, with minor tweaks, and reuse their storage layout. There is no ABI. Each contract dispatches on the caller and on `calldatasize` alone. Calls that match none of the cases below MUST revert.

Reviewer: > There is no ABI.

There is always an ABI. I think you mean there's no Solidity compatible ABI?

#### Write path

A call from any address other than `SYSTEM_ADDRESS`, with calldata of exactly the contract's input size, submits a request. The contract MUST validate the request and the value sent (see below), append one record to its queue, increment the per-block count, and emit the accepted record as an anonymous log.

#### Fee getter

A call from any address other than `SYSTEM_ADDRESS`, with empty calldata, returns the current fee without modifying state. The contract MUST revert if any value is attached.

#### System call

> At the end of each block, the contract is called by `SYSTEM_ADDRESS`. If any calldata is included, the queue is permanently disabled via an inhibitor. If no calldata is included, it MUST dequeue up to its per-block maximum of records (`MAX_DEPOSIT_REQUESTS_PER_BLOCK` or `MAX_EXIT_REQUESTS_PER_BLOCK`, oldest first), return their concatenation as its `request_data`, and reset the per-block count. Records beyond the cap remain queued for subsequent blocks.

Reviewer 3: > If any calldata is included, the queue is permanently disabled via an inhibitor

is this true? I thought there was no mechanism wired up yet to active the inhibitor, but also haven't looked at the contract details since @fjl added the inhibitor

Author: Yes its true from the perspective of the contract code / behavior (which is what is being described here).
Likely that whatever harness / EL hasn't wired any code to actually engage with this feature tho.

Reviewer 3: > EL hasn't wired any code to actually engage with this feature tho.

ah yes, that's what I mean, I thought the mechanism was different, thanks for explaining

A builder's BLS key is hot, since it signs bids continuously, so it should not also authorize exits. Routing exit through the cold `execution_address` mirrors the [EIP-7002](./eip-7002.md) rationale for validator withdrawal credentials and gives builders a single, well-defined exit authorizer.

### Request fee

The same demand-responsive fee as [EIP-7002](./eip-7002.md) and [EIP-7251](./eip-7251.md) meters submission, together with the per-block caps and the per-deposit stake.

### Onboarding at the fork

Some applications depend on builders existing from the first slot of the fork, which post-fork deposits to the new contract cannot provide. The existing [EIP-7732](./eip-7732.md) onboarding path is therefore retained for the initial builder set.

## Backwards Compatibility

This EIP is additive at the execution layer. It introduces new contracts at previously empty addresses and does not modify the validator deposit contract or the validator request predeploys. At the consensus layer it modifies the [EIP-7732](./eip-7732.md) builder lifecycle as described in [Changes to EIP-7732](#changes-to-eip-7732). Builders onboarded at the fork are unaffected.

## Reference Implementation

> The reference contracts live in the `ethereum/sys-asm` repository, under `src/builder_deposits` and `src/builder_exits` as of commit `3bba94c696bc46beeecef05db6c2df0f18b4b239`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [`src/builder_deposits`](https://github.com/ethereum/sys-asm/tree/3bba94c696bc46beeecef05db6c2df0f18b4b239/src/builder_deposits) and [`src/builder_deposits`](https://github.com/ethereum/sys-asm/tree/3bba94c696bc46beeecef05db6c2df0f18b4b239/src/builder_exits).
```

### Custodial-split exit standoff

Exit requires a zero pending balance, every winning bid adds pending balance, and only the `execution_address` can authorize exit. Where the `execution_address` (capital owner) and the BLS key (bidding operator) are held by different parties, an operator that keeps winning bids can indefinitely block the owner's exit. Delegating parties SHOULD retain off-chain control over the operator's bidding.

### Spam and state growth

The per-block caps bound the drain rate, not enqueue, so the in-state queues can grow across blocks. Growth is gated by value, since each deposit locks at least `BUILDER_MIN_DEPOSIT` plus the fee. An attacker submitting valid proofs-of-possession forfeits nothing, because the stake remains a withdrawable builder balance, so post-fork onboarding can be delayed behind a backlog of attacker deposits at the cost of locked capital. This is tolerable because the time-critical initial builder set is seeded through the fork transition rather than the steady-state contract.

### Locked funds

> The request fee, any overpayment, and the principal of a first deposit that the consensus layer rejects for an invalid proof-of-possession are permanently locked in the predeploy. The execution layer does not verify BLS signatures, so submitters SHOULD verify the proof-of-possession off-chain before broadcasting.

Reviewer: Avoid creating requirements (with UPPERCASE keywords) outside of the specification section. They're too easy for implementers to miss. Instead, put the requirements in Specification, but discuss their security implications here.

### Request fee

The same demand-responsive fee as [EIP-7002](./eip-7002.md) and [EIP-7251](./eip-7251.md) meters submission, together with the per-block caps and the per-deposit stake.

### Onboarding at the fork

Some applications depend on builders existing from the first slot of the fork, which post-fork deposits to the new contract cannot provide. The existing [EIP-7732](./eip-7732.md) onboarding path is therefore retained for the initial builder set.

## Backwards Compatibility

This EIP is additive at the execution layer. It introduces new contracts at previously empty addresses and does not modify the validator deposit contract or the validator request predeploys. At the consensus layer it modifies the [EIP-7732](./eip-7732.md) builder lifecycle as described in [Changes to EIP-7732](#changes-to-eip-7732). Builders onboarded at the fork are unaffected.

## Reference Implementation

- [Builder deposit contract](https://github.com/ethereum/sys-asm/tree/3bba94c696bc46beeecef05db6c2df0f18b4b239/src/builder_deposits)

> - [Builder exit contract](https://github.com/ethereum/sys-asm/tree/3bba94c696bc46beeecef05db6c2df0f18b4b239/src/builder_exits)

Reviewer 3: I wonder what else to reference here but the contracts seem like the minimum

## Security Considerations

### Exit authorization

The exit contract records `msg.sender` as `source_address` and performs no further check. Because the request carries no signature, the consensus layer MUST initiate an exit only when `source_address` equals the target builder's `execution_address`. Otherwise an arbitrary caller could exit any builder.

### Signing-domain separation

Builder deposits are signed under `DOMAIN_BUILDER_DEPOSIT`, distinct from the validator `DOMAIN_DEPOSIT`, so deposit proofs-of-possession cannot be replayed across the two classes. Fork-transition seed deposits are made through the validator deposit contract and are necessarily signed under `DOMAIN_DEPOSIT`.

### Replayable deposit records

A deposit's fields are public in calldata, so a third party can resubmit them for an already-registered builder at an amount it funds itself. Such a replay is a top-up whose credentials and signature are ignored. It credits stake and redirects nothing.

### Custodial-split exit standoff

> Exit requires a zero pending balance, every winning bid adds pending balance, and only the `execution_address` can authorize exit. Where the `execution_address` (capital owner) and the BLS key (bidding operator) are held by different parties, an operator that keeps winning bids can indefinitely block the owner's exit. Delegating parties SHOULD retain off-chain control over the operator's bidding.

Reviewer 3: this seems a bit far fetched for builders, it's not the same as for validators, where delegating the stake is quite common and the owner of the BLS keys is different from the owner of the withdrawal credentials. but sure, we can keep it, I guess 1 more security consideration isn't a bad thing 😅

### Spam and state growth

The per-block caps bound the drain rate, not enqueue, so the in-state queues can grow across blocks. Growth is gated by value, since each deposit locks at least `BUILDER_MIN_DEPOSIT` plus the fee. An attacker submitting valid proofs-of-possession forfeits nothing, because the stake remains a withdrawable builder balance, so post-fork onboarding can be delayed behind a backlog of attacker deposits at the cost of locked capital. This is tolerable because the time-critical initial builder set is seeded through the fork transition rather than the steady-state contract.

### Locked funds

The request fee, any overpayment, and the principal of a first deposit that the consensus layer rejects for an invalid proof-of-possession are permanently locked in the predeploy. The execution layer does not verify BLS signatures, so submitters SHOULD verify the proof-of-possession off-chain before broadcasting.

### Same key as validator and builder

> The registries are keyed by independent request types, so one public key may exist in both, with distinct indices and lifecycles. Neither request type can act on the other registry. Builder indices are reused after an exited builder's balance is swept, so clients caching builder state by index MUST account for reuse.

Reviewer 3: >  Builder indices are reused after an exited builder's balance is swept, so clients caching builder state by index MUST account for reuse.

how is this related to "Same key as validator and builder"? also this isn't new with EIP-8282, index reuse is part of EIP-7732 already

Author: Just going to remove this paragraph
